University of Mumbai 
Engineering Examinations 
 
Question Paper Pattern for Regular examination   
Winter 2020 Online Examinations 
Commencing from 23 rd  December 2020 and 7 th  January, 2021  

 

The question paper will be of total 80 and of 2 hours duration. Out of which 40 marks will 
be 20 MCQs carrying two marks each covering entire syllabus. Remaining two questions 
carrying 20 marks each (Total 40 marks) will be of subjective/descriptive in nature of 5 or 
10 marks as per the requirement of the subject/course and based on the entire syllabus.  

For the subjects with 60 or 40 marks (as per the scheme given in the syllabus) the number of 
MCQs and subjective/descriptive questions will reduce proportionately but the total marks 
assigned for MCQ part and Subjective part will be 50% of total marks. 

The detailed structure for 80 marks question paper is as follows 

 

Q1.     MCQs                        40 marks 

20 MCQs of 2 marks each based entire syllabus. All the questions are compulsory 

          

Q2 and Q3.  Subjective Questions (Total 40 marks)                20 marks each 

Either 5 marks or 10 marks sub questions will be asked with internal options.  

In a few exceptional courses/subjects (as per the requirement of the subject) even a 20 
mark question may be asked.  

 

Note: 

1.  Internal options will be provided in the subjective questions 
2.  The sub questions in Q2 and Q3 will be asked on multiple modules and based 
on the maximum syllabus.   
3.  Referring  to  subjective/descriptive  answers,  students  have  to  write  question 
wise answers using paper and pen. Answers of Q2 and Q3 along with the sub 
questions,  if  any,  has  to  be  scanned,  by  the  student  appearing  for  the  said 
examination, as one document (separate for Q2 and Q3) in pdf format and has 
to be uploaded in appropriate location of respective questions of either Google 
form, MS form or any other LMS.  
4.  Additional 15 minutes will be provided for scanning and uploading the answers 
of respective questions. 
 

 

 

Dr. S. K. Ukarande 
Associate Dean, Faculty of Science and Technology 
University of Mumbai   